If you are on hold at a company. and they play music over the line,
then chances are that it sounds bad - and sometimes there is even noise.
Telephone signals are not made to send music through, and to explain why ...
we have to go far back in time, to a period with telephone equipment like this.
The first telephone calls were connected by a human operator ...
that literally connected the two telephone wires to one circuit ...
to a large plate full of switches.
Also called "switchboard".
Every sound on the one hand, be it speech, music or whatever,
was converted into an electrical signal, sent through the wire,
and converted back on the other side.
When you send music, you get music -
although this was limited by the possibilities of the tiny microphone and loudspeaker.
But telephone exchanges like this only work for a small number of connections.
Because of course you can not do this for every telephone call.
[TELEPHONE IS OVER]
Telephone companies quickly realized that they could save
on installing thousands of cables between the power plants, miles apart,
if they could send several calls simultaneously through a thread.
So instead of transmitting every frequency of the sound in the original signal,
cut off the high and low frequencies,
the frequencies that are not strictly necessary to understand speech,
and they shifted each call to a different frequency range.
On the other hand, like tuning a radio,
they moved each conversation back to the right frequencies so that you could understand it.
The quality was not great, but it was good enough.
And hey, we got cheap long-distance calling.
We got used to the sound quality of the phone.
[MACHINE CLICKS]
And it became the standard.
So anyway [TELEPHONE GOES OVER] music would not sound that good,
with all high and low frequencies cut off.
But as long as we still call through analog circuits,
[MACHINE SPRING BACK]
it would not sound like noise.
That was the problem of computers.
Telephone companies realized that they could send more calls through the same cable,
or in the same airspace via a mobile network,
if they used computers to compress the audio.
And the more they compressed it,
the more calls they could send simultaneously through one cable,
and the cheaper it was for them.
Today there is enough power in almost all phones ...
to compress 4K video directly, but then, not really yet.
MP3s had just been invented, and these phones did not have enough power
to compress even that.
To this day, the standards for telephony are based on fast and simple compression ...
built years ago, made to work with very little computing power,
and is optimized for speech.
That compression is great in compressing a single, clear voice -
but throw a lot of difficult music against it, with all its instruments,
[COMPRESSED MUSIC] ... and it sounds bad.
But not bad enough to completely change into noise.
There remains one more puzzle piece.
Someone else who runs away from it.
Because in the worst case, that waiting music is not only compressed ...
by the telephone company on your way to you,
but is it already compressed by a totally different system
while your call is jumping around within the company's internal telephone network.
An internal telephone network that is probably built by the lowest bidder.
So the telephone company takes that cut signal
and cut it yourself in another way, before sending it to you.
And in a very badly built system,
is there perhaps a whole third layer of horrendous compression ...
from the company that runs the call center ...
that you're actually calling with, in some distant country.
[MUSIC BEGINS TO PLAY] Speech can survive this necklace ...
but music ...
[MUSIC CHANGES IN NOISE] ... music can not!
Thank you very much to the team at the Milton Keynes Museum
and their Connected Earth exhibition,
where as good as all this connection equipment
free to use and play with.
Look in the description for more information about this.
This is not TARDIS.
This is really just a police telephone booth.
NL translation by hrnbouma